If adding another social media to your
plate sounds like the straw that will
break the camel's back, you're not
alone. You have to create new content
for this social media, build your
following from scratch, and learn the
best practices and strategies. It sounds
extremely overwhelming. And this is the
exact mindset that I have been having in
regards to Pinterest over the last few
years. And in the back of my head, I've
been thinking, is Pinterest really even
worth it? Like when I think of the major
social media apps, I admittedly oftent
times leave Pinterest off the list. I
mentioned things like Tik Tok and
Instagram and YouTube, but oftent times
Pinterest doesn't even come to mind. But
with all of that being said, it's
important to recognize a few things.
Number one, Pinterest has been around
for quite a while. It's not one of these
flashin the pan social media apps that's
super popular one month and then no
one's using it a month later. Pinterest
has been around for a long time and I
use Pinterest and my wife uses Pinterest
and when I talk to people about planning
for their wedding or looking up recipes,
they oftentimes reference finding things
on Pinterest. But there's one really
huge misconception that I had going into
today's interview. And I'm going to
guess it's a misconception that you have
had as well, and that is that Pinterest
honestly isn't even a social media app.
You're not necessarily wrong to define
it as such, but I think that after
today's interview, I would categorize
Pinterest as a search engine kind of
more along the lines of YouTube or even
Google. Also, from today's interview, I
found out that the way that I have
personally been using Pinterest for the
last few years was, let's call it
misguided. Today on the show, our guest
is none other than Jenna Kutcher. You
might be a part of her over 1 million
Instagram followers, but I bet you
didn't know that she was generating
thousands of leads per month for her
business using Pinterest and using a
strategy that takes only about an hour
per week. I'm so excited to get to pick
her brain in today's episode. And
honestly, it's quite selfish of me to do
so because I've been wanting some
coaching around Pinterest myself. And
after today's episode, I am absolutely
going allin on Pinterest, especially
considering that going allin isn't going
to cost me more than 60 minutes. So,
without further ado, here's our
interview.
Hello, Jenno. Welcome to today's
episode. Hey, thanks so much for having
me. I am so excited for this
conversation. Um, because, you know,
admittedly, often times in these convos,
you have to kind of pretend as the
interviewer that you don't know what
you're talking about. Yes. But I know
very little of what I'm talking about
today. Today we're going to be talking
all about Pinterest, which is something
that you've been jamming out on
recently. You know, we'll get into all
of the missteps and mistakes that I am
definitely making. Um, so let's just get
right into it. You know, why should I or
why should any small business owner
listening today care about Pinterest?
Because Jenna, they're probably like,
"Oh my gosh, I have so much going on
with Instagram and Facebook and Tik Tok
and YouTube, and now you want me to add
Pinterest, so why should I care?" Okay,
so first things first, Pinterest will
never take away from the work that
you're already doing. What it's going to
do is elongate the lifespan of that work
that you are creating and it's going to
turn like minutes and moments into
months. And so how I like to see it is
this is not about adding more to your
plate. It's about digging for gold in
the gold mine that you are likely
sitting on and also just helping your
work work for you. And so before anyone
panics and they're like not another
strategy, not another platform, I can't
do it. All I'm asking you to do is
reallocate one hour of your life each
week to this strategy. and it's going to
turn all of your work into something
that's working for you. Gotcha. Okay, I
can um I can get with that. There's
actually this post that I've this
graphic that I posted a few times on
Instagram talking about the average
lifespan, so to speak, of a post. And
there's two things that always people
freak out over when they see that post.
Number one, the the lifespan of a Tik
Tok is like they call it immediate
decay. Basically, immediately once you
post it, dead on the vine. Exactly. Um,
but then Pinterest is also on that
graphic and it's like the longest
biggest bar on the graphic and people
are like, "Oh my gosh, I need to get on
Pinterest." So, what you're saying, I'm
already like, "Oh, yeah, duh. I've even
talked about that before, but I haven't
taken it seriously." So, who should be
posting on Pinterest? Who should be
putting their business on Pinterest? And
is there anyone who like maybe Pinterest
shouldn't be for them? Okay, this is so
good. Before we dive into that, I'm
going to tell you something about the
lifespan of a pin. So when we think
about social, a lot of our posts will be
dead within 48 hours tops, right? That's
pretty generous in my opinion. Yeah. The
average lifespan of one pin, one
singular pin on Pinterest is over 13
months and that is the halflife. So 13
months. So one year from now plus, your
work could still be working for you. So
I just want to paint that picture. So
who should be on Pinterest? So, anyone
that is creating content, and I mean
literally anyone. It doesn't matter what
genre you're in. Now, when I say
content, I'm talking about the stuff
that Brock talks about all the time.
Whether you are a podcaster, a YouTuber,
an Instagram creator, a writer, a
blogger, like you, what I love about you
is you'll advocate like Instagram has a
way for every type of creator to be
creating on it. So, I would say that
your audience is a dream for Pinterest
because they are likely creating
content. Now, who it's not for is people
that don't have a clear path. So, you
might be creating content, but you might
not have actually figured out, well,
what is the end result of this content?
Right? We know general content creators
who love like the dopamine hit of likes
and comments, but maybe they don't have
a through line of like where does this
lead to and what is valuable in my
ecosystem, whether it's a subscriber, an
email subscriber, a sale, a call,
whatever that looks like. And so if you
don't actually have something that can
kind of lead traffic into treasure as I
like to call it, Pinterest probably
isn't the best platform for you. And the
only other thing I would say is if you
don't want to have your business a year
from now or 5 years from now, Pinterest
is also not the platform for you.
Gotcha. Okay. So then where do we even
get started with Pinterest? Because I'm
going to guess that most people here are
two things. their number one, they have
a Pinterest account, but they've been
pinning things for the baby shower, the
wedding, the, you know, the birthday
party, whatever, but they've never
actually used it for business. So, what
are the steps to get started? Okay, so
this was me. So, if this is you,
welcome. You're in good company. U let
me tell you a quick story about how I
figured this out because it wasn't even
me. So, years ago, I was white knuckling
my business. I was a wedding
photographer in Wisconsin and I had
finally released the white knuckle grip
on my business and said, "I need help."
Right? Those three words that are so
hard for all of us to utter. And I hired
my first virtual assistant. And I will
never forget the first time we sat down.
We sat across from each other in this
small little Wisconsin cafe and she
goes, "How's Pinterest working for you?"
And I looked her dead in the eye and I
was like, "Okay, so let me tell you
about my clothing board. Oh, it is so on
point. it's so Parisian chic and let me
tell you about this house that I'm going
to build someday. It apparently has 20
bathrooms. And we were kind of laughing
and she's like, "No, no, no. Like, how
is it working for you, like for your
business?" And I was like, "What are you
talking about?" And I had no idea that
the pins that are on the platform are
brought on by Pinterest users. I feel
like people go on and browse it and they
just think like somehow these these
graphics are there but people don't
connect the dots that like you can
import a pin onto Pinterest today. You
can bring anything onto the platform. So
the biggest misconception that people
look at is one that is just for like
vision boards, right? It's a visual
search engine and so we love using it to
plan out vacations and our homes and our
outfits and all the different things.
But what we're missing is that we can
actually become contributors to
Pinterest. The way that pins get on
there is from people bringing them onto
the platform. And so if you are someone
who is casually pinning, which I love. I
love Pinterest. I've never felt bad
about myself after being on Pinterest,
right? Like I can go on to doom scroll
on Instagram. I feel like garbage. Like,
oh, I'm not pretty enough and I'm not
doing enough. Pinterest. I'm like, wow,
the the sky's is the limit. But you feel
inspired. Yes, you do feel inspired. But
if you are someone who is just passively
pinning, what I want for you to start
paying attention to is looking at these
pins through the lens of somebody put
this on here, right? The creator did or
somebody that was inspired by the
content. Pinterest is not social media.
And this is where the biggest disconnect
is. People often group Pinterest in the
group of the Tik Toks and the
Instagrams. It's not a this or that. It
is a totally separate camp. Pinterest is
a search engine. It is like a modern-day
pretty Google. When you go into
Pinterest, you're typing in, you know,
how to start a business or how to launch
a podcast or how to find a red dress
with ruffly sleeves, right? We're using
it in the way of a search engine, but
oftent times our brain is disconnecting
it and telling us it's social media. And
so, if you're getting started, first pay
attention just to your user experience
and acknowledging that somebody brought
these things on. And then notice what
you're typing into the search bar and
how you're leveraging it as a search
engine. One thing that I love that you
do so well, Brock, is you often break
down what Instagram strategy is. So like
when they launch a new feature, you're
telling them like, okay, this is why
they're doing it, and this is their hope
of it. When we look at Pinterest, what
their goal is is to actually connect you
with the end result you're seeking. They
want to be the connector. They want you
to click the link and actually go to the
destination. They want you to get the
answers and the solutions. A search
engine's goal is very different than
social media. Social media wants to keep
you on the app, keep you scrolling,
whereas a search engine wants to be the
bridge that connects you to the solution
or the answer that you're looking for.
And so it totally changes the strategy.
And so a lot of people too, they'll take
what's working on social media and
they'll bring it on to the search engine
and they'll be like, "Well, this doesn't
work." but they're not actually looking
through it or looking at it through the
right lens. Gotcha. Okay. So, let's talk
about then how do you look through that
right lens? Because you said a few times
bringing these pins to Pinterest,
whether it's you as the creator or
someone else bringing these pins to
Pinterest. So, like what does that look
like? What does that mean? How do we
actually put that into practice? Okay.
So, what is incredible about Pinterest
is that any user can upload a pin and
when they upload a pin, which is simply
in most cases just a graphic. When they
upload the pin, you get to designate
where you are sending someone to. So,
you literally get to drop in any URL
that you want. So, this could be a
landing page to grow your email list. It
could be your YouTube channel. It could
be your podcast. It could be your
Instagram. It could be your blog, your
website, your sales page. You can
literally designate any space that you
have on the internet, which is pretty
rare that you can point somebody in any
direction. So, the other thing about
Pinterest is that it prioritizes what
they consider fresh content. Now, fresh
content doesn't mean that Brock needs to
publish a new video every single day.
Fresh content just means that it needs
to be a variation of something you've
posted before. So for this episode of
your podcast, Brock, we could create 10,
15, 20, 30 different pins that all point
back to this singular piece of content
as long as the graphics, the headlines,
or the visuals are unique. Now, what
this means in layman's term is if you
have a good set of templates in Canva
and you have a slight bit of creativity
in terms of how you name things or how
you promote something, you can create an
unlimited amount of pins that can point
to one piece of content. This is why
it's not about adding more to your
already full plate or creating more
content. It's about putting a spin on
your content. And let me ask you this
real quick, Brock. What would be easier
for you to do? Go into Canva, leverage a
template, and create 10 different
graphics or create a brand new podcast
episode, the show notes, the social
clips, and all the things that accompany
it before you move on to the next. Which
one's easier? Yeah, obviously 100%
option A. Yes. And so what's amazing is
is that I bet your listeners right now
are sitting on tens or hundreds or even
thousands of pieces of content that
could have pins pointing to it. It could
be stuff that you made a year ago, two
years ago that you could turn into pins
to land on the Pinterest platform and
reach their viewers. So I feel like it
should give you an exhale of like this
is really not about doing more. It's
about making your work work harder with
just a tiny bit of strategy and effort.
Gotcha. Okay. So, like I'm
conceptualizing this, thinking about it.
It's a search engine. So, it's not
Instagram where I'm scrolling through
reals. It's more like Google. But when I
search something on Google nowadays, I
get like a big AI response that's never
helpful. And then I get like a bunch of
links and URLs and the first seven of
them are sponsored. And then there's,
you know, a bunch of of not pretty,
right? It's just text. It's links and
headlines. So essentially, is this just
for, you know, oversimplification
purposes? These pins on Pinterest are
the same thing as these links on Google,
right? These these headlines. The only
difference is on Pinterest, they're
visually appealing. Maybe they have a
graphic or a video, and then they're
still going to ultimately direct me to
wherever that final destination is.
Exactly. Right. And what's awesome is
that every single word on Pinterest,
because it's a search engine, is
searchable. So, if you take some of the
SEO or search engine optimization
strategies that you are likely using in
other places in your business, that's
all you need is just a tiny bit of
keyword strategy. So, it could be
keywords in the graphic itself. It could
be keywords in the pin title. It could
be keywords in the description. All
you're doing is helping Pinterest
connect people that are looking for your
work with your work. Gotcha. Okay. So,
I'll tell you what I've been doing, and
let me know if this is is a mistake,
something wrong, something could could
that could be improved. I use a
scheduling tool to schedule all of my
posts for Tik Tok, Instagram, Facebook,
whatever. And I'm logged into my
Pinterest. So, when I'm clicking on the
little icons up at the top, I click on
Pinterest. So, if it's a real that's
being posted on Instagram, the same
video is being posted on Pinterest. But,
I'm not adding a link to send it
anywhere. So, is that incorrect? Like
would it be better if I was instead
having that link back to my Instagram or
like what's going wrong with my strategy
there because I've seen like literally
zero change or results from from doing
what I'm currently doing. Right. So
yeah. Okay. So you can keep doing that,
but I'm going to add just a teeny bit of
strategy for you. So we are big fans of
set it and forget it, which is like my
life. Like that is what I want. I want a
crock-ot meal and I want strategies that
I can set and forget. So, if the easiest
way to get your content onto Pinterest
is to keep that feature selected so that
you know it's getting onto the platform,
that's fantastic. You can keep that on.
What I would recommend then is setting a
timer or a reminder for 20 minutes at
the end of your week to go on to your
newly uploaded pins and to add a little
bit of strategy. So, that's where you
could add in the backlink and you could
add in a more SEO optimized title and
description for your pin. Because often
times when you're using different things
like Ply or Tailwind or whatever you're
using to auto schedule, it's not
optimized for Pinterest in terms of
searchability. And so if it's easier to
just have it auto post and then you go
in and tweak, there's no harm in doing
that and you're not like tanking your
ability to get results. There's nothing
there because again, this is the long
game. But you'll add in that strategy.
And so what you can do is you can
decide, okay, where do I want to send
this to? What is the best way to send
it? somewhere where it's traffic, but I
can turn that into something. I'm the
biggest fan of sending it to places you
own on the internet, whether it's a
website or a blog, versus sending it to
other platforms where you don't
necessarily get to capture any sort of
data or um any of their information. Um,
but what I would just say is then just
go in on a Friday, look at the pins that
automatically uploaded, jump in. You can
even use chatbt and say, "Write me a
title for this Instagram caption."
that's SEO optimized and great for
Pinterest. Drop those things in and
designate where you want it to go and
that's how that content will work for
you longer than when you just hit
publish. Does that make sense? Yeah,
that that totally makes sense and that's
that's very doable. I want to come back
to a question around like graphics
versus videos versus reals. Before I do
that, this is probably going to be a
quicker question. Are there any sort of
account settings or profile things that
we need to be aware of on Instagram?
they in Instagram fashion they always
over complicate it with like you could
be business, professional, creator,
personal, private, whatever. Is there
anything like that that we should be
aware of or make sure that we set up
correctly on Pinterest? Yes. So that's a
fabulous question, Brock. So you want to
make sure you're a business account. So
without being a business account, you
don't have access to analytics and you
also can't uh make your profile super
optimized. So with a business account,
you could have like Brock Johnson,
Instagram strategy expert as your title.
And you teach this too with kind of like
optimizing your bio. It's actually very
similar to the strategies you teach in
Instagram in Pinterest. It's just again
every word that you're putting in there
is searchable. And so you want to make
sure the words and phrases that you're
using both in your title and in your bio
are very clear. So very similar to what
you teach there. You also just want to
have a business account because that
will give you access to the analytics.
It'll also unlock a few features like
linking to your website and different
things like that as well. It's a super
easy process. Once you do it once, you
don't ever have to do it again. And so,
it just takes a few minutes, but that
will switch your account from personal
to business, which will then allow you
to kind of think a little bit more
strategically and have more strategy in
place. Gotcha. Okay. Totally makes
sense. Back to my question about
graphics versus videos. Yeah. You
mentioned earlier having like Canva
templates. You mentioned uh you said the
word graphics a few times. Do graphics
or you know quote unquote still images
perform better? Is that more of the norm
and the expectation on Pinterest than
these 7-second reels that are being
posted on Instagram? Yes. Okay. So, this
will maybe give your audience another
sigh of relief, but I just saw a stat
that it said like the average reel is
taking entrepreneurs three to four hours
based on what they're creating, which I
haven't made sure, but for me that's
kind of true. Takes me a long time. Uh,
but what we've done is like in my
business is for every podcast episode
that goes out, I created 10 templates to
turn one podcast episode into 10
graphics. One graphic is just the title
of my show. Then the next graphic is the
title of my show with my photo. Then the
next graphic is a pull quote from the
episode. The next graphic could be an
infographic. Again, it's just slightly
varying either the way that you're
talking about the episode or the way the
graphic is. One thing that's really
great about Pinterest is that it's not
necessarily the popularity contest that
social media can feel like because users
on there aren't specifically generally
typing in your name unless you're super
well-known. People aren't going onto
Pinterest and typing in your name. So,
there's a stat that 96% of searches on
Pinterest are unbranded searches,
meaning that people are really
interested in being exposed to new
creators, new offers, new products,
which is a huge relief for small
businesses and people that are just
starting out. Like the other day, I was
looking for a red dress and I had like a
specific vision in my mind and I just
couldn't find what I was looking for.
And it was popping up all these
different boutiques I would have never
found. I would have never heard of. I
don't care where I'm getting this red
dress from. I just want to find what I'm
looking for. And so what's awesome about
Pinterest is for people that prefer to
be a little bit more faceless in their
marketing or they want to not
necessarily be like the performer in
their business, Pinterest is amazing.
And so for you, Brock, you have such SEO
optimized titles, which I know is
strategic on your part when it comes to
YouTube. And so there are so many
different ways that you could take one
YouTube episode and take different
clips, use stock photos, plain
backgrounds, talk to different segments
of your audience. Like you could do one
like Instagram strategies for small
business owners, Instagram strategies
for course creators, Instagram
strategies for product based businesses.
So all of these different ways are easy
ways to create new graphics that promote
and point to the same thing. So, what I
rely on is just templates. And here's
the secret sauce of this. At this point,
I don't even do my own Pinterest
strategy. I outsource the one hour a
week to an amazing VA on my team because
once the templates are created, all she
does is take that piece of published
content and dissect it and break it down
and she's ready to rock. And keeping in
mind, if you think about it, one episode
of your show turning into 10 pins, the
average lifespan of one pin is 13
months. Now think about 10 pins being
published spaced out over a period of
time. Your episode that you're recording
right now can be working for you in the
next year. And I feel like that's just
such a different mentality than social
media where it's just like we're
constantly creating and kind of feeding
the beast. And so it totally transforms
the way that you create content and also
the way that you look at the promotion
of the content you create. I love it. We
are 100% going to implement everything
you are saying. And so I'm speaking
right now to the person in the future
who I bet is finding this episode on
Pinterest and then now they're watching
this episode. It's kind of like this.
It's meta. I like it. Pinterest
inception. Yeah, I love it. Um, okay.
Okay. So, you mentioned spacing them out
over a period of time and you know I
understand that if I space them out then
it's just going to extend the life the
lifespan so to speak. Um but in terms of
frequency on Instagram we say the more
you post the more you grow. On Tik Tok
the same is true. Um what is there is
there best practice and I know you know
Pinterest isn't like you said earlier
it's not a social media as much. It's
more of a search engine. So is it truly
the more the marrier with posting on
Pinterest? Is it, hey, give them at
least an hour so they can breathe.
What's the best practice in terms of
frequency? Okay, you're going to love
this. Okay, so the way that I teach it
is it literally takes 1 hour a week. You
can log in and you can log out. So
unlike the social platforms, and again,
this isn't a comparison. It's just
pointing the distinction. Unlike the
social platforms where you shouldn't
just like post and ghost, you need to
stay on and engage and be in your DMs.
This is truly a you upload it and you
can ghost because it's not necessarily
about likes and comments and that kind
of thing. So, it's a very different
mindset. So, what we recommend is even
if you just uploaded one to two fresh
pins, fresh just meaning different
variations. It can be old content being
resurfaced, but fresh graphics to
Pinterest a day, you can get really
great success. So, that's just one to
two. So that would be about creating 14
different graphics in Canva in one week
pointing to different types of work that
you've done. Now the recommendation and
what we do personally on my team because
we have such a gold mine of content. We
have thousands upon thousands of posts
and episodes and all the different
things is that we typically post around
five to 15 pins a day. Now when I say
we're posting it, we're just scheduling
these out to be dropping. And it's
pretty easy to do that when you have
templates to rely on and you can look at
a piece of content and splice and dice
it. In fact, you can go into chat GBT
and you could upload a transcript of
this episode and say, "Give me 10
different angles for this." And it would
literally spit out amazing headlines
that you could use on these graphics.
So, the one thing to keep in mind is
that if you have a piece of content and
let's say Brock, you create 10 pins for
it. My recommendation would be is if you
have enough content to do this, which
you do, would be to space out those pins
at least by one week, just so you're not
spamming Pinterest with all of these
pins that are super similar pointing to
that one piece of content. If you can't
do that, you're not going to be
penalized. You likely just might not get
as great of results. And so if
somebody's listening, my recommendation
would be pick three pieces of content
that you've already created that maybe
performed well in the past and create,
let's say, three different pins for
that. That'd be nine pins. That would be
enough to get the one to two pins per
day for the next week. And you could
schedule it, set it, and forget it, and
then log in again on Monday. So that's
kind of how we approach it. Um, there's
really not a ton of rules. Like what's
interesting to me is it doesn't ever
feel like you're like gaming the system.
Um I've been teaching Pinterest for
seven years now, like teaching the
strategy. And what's incredible is is
like I just re-recorded my entire
program and not a lot had changed. Like
it wasn't like this massive shift from
like, oh my gosh, last year to this year
there's this algorithm drop and
everything is not working. And so that
gives me a lot of peace in the process.
They also recently announced a verified
Pinterest educators program which I'm a
part of. And I also just think that that
is awesome in the sense of it's not like
you're gaming a system. I think
sometimes we can get strategies and it
kind of feels like well this could work
for now but it might not work in a
month. Uh they're backing what we teach.
And so I just want you your listeners to
listen with a lens of like this isn't
about gaming it. This is exactly how
they want you to be using it. Gotcha.
That makes sense. And that's so cool.
Congratulations on that. I I love uh you
know and it totally makes sense that you
are one of those verified educators
because you're someone who teaches
strategies that are proven to work and
will work over the long haul and it's
not like a flash in the pan hack that's
going to work for the next 12 hours and
then hey if you don't see this episode
the day it was posted it's gone forever.
But speaking of those strategies, I
would love to first of all just
understand um and this might be a very
silly beginner question, but on
Instagram we have stories, we have
carousels like the slideshows, we have
photos, and we have reals um and we have
live. Um what are the different kinds of
content that we can post or the
different kinds of posts we can pin on
Pinterest? Yeah. So the main one that is
like 98% of what we do is just a
singular graphic. It is just one single
standalone graphic. Now they have
recently released like carousels where
you can have multiple pins. It's limited
to five. So it's kind of like a series
of five where people can scroll through
and then they also do video pins, but
they're often no audio. It's just like a
video clip. So, a lot of times my team
will take my reels that I post that are
more like B-roll, which we all know
aren't working as great these days. Um,
but they can take that content and also
post it onto Pinterest. There is also
one thing that I think is interesting to
call out is that there's Pinterest ads.
And for most of my career on Pinterest,
we've gone straight organic. Like no
paid strategy, gotten results with no
paid strategy. But one thing that's been
interesting is as we've been using
Pinterest ads more, we've been seeing
that our cost per lead for our last
launch was nearly half of the cost per
lead that we were getting on Meta, which
is really interesting because we're not
anti-ta. Like I use Instagram and
Facebook all the time and that's how we
get a ton of leads. But it was wild
because we were able to track the
performance of Pinterest users all the
way through the funnel and those leads
performed the same as our meta leads but
the cost was 1/ half. Why this is
important is I think a lot of people do
feel slightly stuck with like all the
eggs in one basket, right? And if
something changes or something's not
working, it's not like you can just
throw spaghetti at the wall without a
cost. And so Pinterest ads are also a
really awesome place. And what we also
realized through Pinterest ads is that
we were being exposed to people that
wouldn't have naturally been in our
world or in our ecosystem. So with
Pinterest ads, you can also leverage the
single graphics or the videos. And a lot
of times we'll just take what's already
working, resize it for Pinterest, which
now Instagram is is actually the
formatting matches a lot easier um with
the more uh portrait style fitting. Um
and so it's really not a lot of extra
work on our part. They've done different
things in the past where like you can
literally click and get taken directly
to the shop. So, it's a really direct
path for product based businesses where
it literally takes somebody to check
out. And if they have like Shop Pay or
Shopify, it's like, "Oh my god, I could
literally buy something in about 5
seconds." Um, and so they're always kind
of trying different things, but the main
one that we do is just a single graphic.
And it's so easy to create a single
graphic for basically anything you've
already made. Totally makes sense. Let's
talk more about some of the best
practices for those single graphics. I'm
just curious um you know, have you found
that portrait works better than
landscape? Is there a certain amount of
words or a certain like um you know,
should we have a human's face on it plus
a headline plus a subheader? Like what
is the best practice? And I'm sure it
varies person to person, business to
business, but are there any general uh
things to keep in mind with those
graphics? Yes. So, we only do vertical
oriented pins because just like on
Instagram, it takes a more landscape
visually. So, again, a lot of
similarities there. Now, one of my
favorite things about Pinterest is you
can split test any idea, any headline,
any graphic, any color, any font. You
can split test anything with no risk or
without feeling like you're standing on
stage naked in front of your audience.
And so it removes the vulnerability that
a lot of people feel in desiring to test
or experiment with something because
it's like on Instagram, you know, trial
reels, I guess, kind of did that for us
a little bit like takes away the the
barrier of embarrassment or
vulnerability. But what's incredible
about Pinterest is like you get the
analytics. So we've done it to like
split test ad graphics or different
things like that. The point of this is
is that there's no risk of having a bad
graphic. So, you're not penalized or
it's not going to negatively impact you.
It'll just give you data. But the main
things that we found are a really clear
headline just like you would do a hook
on Instagram. Um, howto articles do so
well on Pinterest. When you think of a
search engine, a lot of times you're
typing in like how do how do I start a
podcast or how do I leverage Instagram
stories? So, how to do really really
well. A lot of our graphics will have
some sort of call to action. Again, very
similar to Instagram, but just a little
button that says click me. The button
itself is not clickable, but the graphic
is. And then we often will see that our
greater results comes from graphics that
don't have my face on me because
remember, it's unbranded searches.
People aren't necessarily looking for
me. They're looking for an answer. And
so, the majority of our pins are not
highlighting Jenna Kutcher. They're
highlighting the content. and it helps
you to connect that content to the
person and then they can get to know you
in the content piece itself. And so
again, for people that want to take a
little step back or not necessarily be
the face, it's amazing. But I just love
it because it's like Brock, let's say
tomorrow you're like, I want my brand to
be like orange and lime green. You could
test that out and split test it using
similar graphics with different branding
and just see what performs better. And
so it's kind of a good testing ground
for people, too. Gotcha. I totally see
how this makes so much sense. I see how
I could do this in less than an hour a
week. I see how I could have someone on
our team do this. I also am imagining
I'm probably not technical enough to
figure it out, but there are probably
people listening who are technical
enough to figure out how to do a lot of
this automatically with AI, which is
super cool. But I also know that there's
even more strategy. There's those
templates that you talked about, and I
know you have an upcoming webinar. So,
can you tell us a little bit more about
that? Yes. Okay. So, I just want to tell
everyone here's what I want you to know.
To learn the system, it doesn't take a
long time. Like, it is not this process
where it's like 800 steps and you've got
to figure it out. It's very simple and
that's why I love it. So, my upcoming
master class is called create once
traffic for months. How to lengthen the
lifespan of your content and make your
work work for you. And I love teaching
this because at the heart of my mission
is to allow people to have life first
businesses. Brock, you are someone who I
admire, who I know you have hobbies, and
I want my work to be the least
interesting part of my life. Like I want
to live just such a full life. And so as
summer is coming and people's time is
about to evaporate and they want to be
spending their time in other places, let
me show you the 1 hour a week strategy
that can make your work work for you and
that can help you spend your precious
time in a way that gives you a true
result. So if you sign up, you can go to
teachmetopin.com. That's teach me
topin.com. Save your seat. I would love
to just walk you through this process
and help your work live on and create
the results that you want it to create.
Amazing. Well, we will link that up in
the show notes below. But, uh, thank you
so much for being here. Two final quick
questions. One is last words of advice,
any parting messages, anything that you
want to share with our audience before
we part ways. So, I would say define
what your version of success is. And for
me, I used to focus on what success
looked like. And now I focus on what
success feels like. And for me, it's
being able to step off of the content
creation hamster wheel and have work
that is working for me in the
background. Like nothing is sexier going
to bed at night knowing that my work is
driving results for me. And so, how do
you want your life to feel? And the
second thing is is that treat time is
your currency. So look at where your
time is going and make sure that every
hour of your time has an ROI that feels
worth it to you. And for me, I love
Instagram. I show up on there every day,
but my real ROI is coming from the
traffic that Pinterest is driving,
leveraging all the things I've been
creating. Amazing. And we will link up,
like I said, the master class in the
show notes. But where's the best place
to get connected with you just if we
want to follow more all things Jenna and
check out more of what you're up to?
Yes. Well, I'll tell you Pinterest, uh,
which you can find me, Jenna Kutcher,
um, and Instagram is Jenna Kutcher. And
I would love for you to also listen to
the Gold Digger podcast. I got to tell
them our quick funny story, Brock, about
what happened. So Brock is going to be
on my podcast. It's such a killer
episode. I have been in the podcast game
for a long time. Hundreds of episodes,
over 100 million downloads. Poor Brock
comes on my podcast and I hit the wrong
record button. People, if you have ever
been mortified, if you wonder if the
great still mess up, the answer is
absolutely positively. And I'm so
grateful that I messed up with someone
as amazing as Brock. So, come and listen
to his episode on my show because it's
the second crack at it. And the second
time was even better than the first. Um,
but I'd love to have you listen in at
the Gold Digger Podcast where you can
hear amazing people just like Brock.
Definitely amazing podcast and I'll link
that up in the show notes as soon as
that specific episode comes out. But
that was a blast. And even today, uh,
you and I and I I think it's important
for people to hear not just about the,
uh, forgetting to hit record or that
technical issue, but also even today,
uh, with this conversation. We've been
talking about having this conversation
around Pinterest for a while. And we
literally planned this via text about 10
minutes before we got started. I was
like, "Hey, do you want to do it now?" I
was about to go for a hike, but we
changed our mind. She's like, "Yeah,
let's do it now." And then I sent her
the link, and here we are. So, anyways,
Jenna, you are amazing. such a light and
thank you for being here today. Thank
you for having me. Before you go, I do
have one final question and it is, would
you like me to do more interviews here
on Build Your Tribe? Of course, now that
Shellene isn't the co-host anymore and
it's just me, that kind of opens us up
for some more experts to come on. And I
am definitely open to interviewing more
experts like Jenna or like Adam Moseri,
the head of Instagram that we've already
had on the show. So, let me know down in
the comments if you're watching on
YouTube. Would you like to hear from
more guest experts and interviews? Or if
not, is there a topic that you would
like me to address and talk about in a
future episode of Build Your Tribe?
Thank you so much for being here this
week.